README.md, before:

# Lockbox

:package: Modern encryption for Rails

- Uses state-of-the-art algorithms
- Works with database fields, files, and strings
- Makes migrating existing data and key rotation easy

Lockbox aims to make encryption as friendly and intuitive as possible. Encrypted fields and files behave just like unencrypted ones for maximum compatibility with 3rd party libraries and existing code.

Learn [the principles behind it](https://ankane.org/modern-encryption-rails), [how to secure emails with Devise](https://ankane.org/securing-user-emails-lockbox), and [how to secure sensitive data in Rails](https://ankane.org/sensitive-data-rails).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ankane/lockbox.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ankane/lockbox)

## Installation

Add this line to your application’s Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'lockbox'
```

## Key Generation

Generate a key

```ruby
Lockbox.generate_key
```

Store the key with your other secrets. This is typically Rails credentials or an environment variable ([dotenv](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv) is great for this). Be sure to use different keys in development and production. Keys don’t need to be hex-encoded, but it’s often easier to store them this way.

Set the following environment variable with your key (you can use this one in development)

```sh
LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY=0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
```

or create `config/initializers/lockbox.rb` with something like

```ruby
Lockbox.master_key = Rails.application.credentials.lockbox_master_key
```

Then follow the instructions below for the data you want to encrypt.

#### Database Fields

- [Active Record](#active-record)
- [Mongoid](#mongoid)

#### Files

- [Active Storage](#active-storage)
- [CarrierWave](#carrierwave)
- [Shrine](#shrine)
- [Local Files](#local-files)

#### Other

- [Strings](#strings)

## Active Record

Create a migration with:

```ruby
class AddEmailCiphertextToUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    add_column :users, :email_ciphertext, :text
  end
end
```

Add to your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email
end
```

You can use `email` just like any other attribute.

```ruby
User.create!(email: "hi@example.org")
```

If you need to query encrypted fields, check out [Blind Index](https://github.com/ankane/blind_index).

#### Types

Fields are strings by default. Specify the type of a field with:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :born_on, type: :date
  encrypts :signed_at, type: :datetime
  encrypts :opens_at, type: :time
  encrypts :active, type: :boolean
  encrypts :salary, type: :integer
  encrypts :latitude, type: :float
  encrypts :video, type: :binary
  encrypts :properties, type: :json
  encrypts :settings, type: :hash
  encrypts :messages, type: :array
end
```

**Note:** Use a `text` column for the ciphertext in migrations, regardless of the type

Lockbox automatically works with serialized fields for maximum compatibility with existing code and libraries.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  serialize :properties, JSON
  store :settings, accessors: [:color, :homepage]
  attribute :configuration, CustomType.new

  encrypts :properties, :settings, :configuration
end
```

For [StoreModel](https://github.com/DmitryTsepelev/store_model), use:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :configuration, type: Configuration.to_type

  after_initialize do
    self.configuration ||= {}
  end
end
```

#### Validations

Validations work as expected with the exception of uniqueness. Uniqueness validations require a [blind index](https://github.com/ankane/blind_index).

#### Fixtures

You can use encrypted attributes in fixtures with:

```yml
test_user:
  email_ciphertext: <%= User.generate_email_ciphertext("secret").inspect %>
```

Be sure to include the `inspect` at the end or it won’t be encoded properly in YAML.

#### Migrating Existing Data

Lockbox makes it easy to encrypt an existing column. Add a new column for the ciphertext, then add to your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, migrating: true
end
```

Backfill the data in the Rails console:

```ruby
Lockbox.migrate(User)
```

Then update the model to the desired state:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email

  # remove this line after dropping email column
  self.ignored_columns = ["email"]
end
```

Finally, drop the unencrypted column.

If adding blind indexes, mark them as `migrating` during this process as well.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  blind_index :email, migrating: true
end
```

## Mongoid

Add to your model:

```ruby
class User
  field :email_ciphertext, type: String

  encrypts :email
end
```

You can use `email` just like any other attribute.

```ruby
User.create!(email: "hi@example.org")
```

If you need to query encrypted fields, check out [Blind Index](https://github.com/ankane/blind_index).

## Active Storage

Add to your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  has_one_attached :license
  encrypts_attached :license
end
```

Works with multiple attachments as well.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  has_many_attached :documents
  encrypts_attached :documents
end
```

There are a few limitations to be aware of:

- Metadata like image width and height are not extracted when encrypted
- Direct uploads cannot be encrypted

To serve encrypted files, use a controller action.

```ruby
def license
  user = User.find(params[:id])
  send_data user.license.download, type: user.license.content_type
end
```

## CarrierWave

Add to your uploader:

```ruby
class LicenseUploader < CarrierWave::Uploader::Base
  encrypt
end
```

Encryption is applied to all versions after processing.

You can mount the uploader [as normal](https://github.com/carrierwaveuploader/carrierwave#activerecord). With Active Record, this involves creating a migration:

```ruby
class AddLicenseToUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    add_column :users, :license, :string
  end
end
```

And updating the model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  mount_uploader :license, LicenseUploader
end
```

To serve encrypted files, use a controller action.

```ruby
def license
  user = User.find(params[:id])
  send_data user.license.read, type: user.license.content_type
end
```

## Shrine

Generate a key

```ruby
key = Lockbox.generate_key
```

Create a lockbox

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key)
```

Encrypt files before passing them to Shrine

```ruby
LicenseUploader.upload(lockbox.encrypt_io(file), :store)
```

And decrypt them after reading

```ruby
lockbox.decrypt(uploaded_file.read)
```

For models, encrypt with:

```ruby
license = params.require(:user).fetch(:license)
user.license = lockbox.encrypt_io(license)
```

To serve encrypted files, use a controller action.

```ruby
def license
  user = User.find(params[:id])
  send_data lockbox.decrypt(user.license.read), type: user.license.mime_type
end
```

## Local Files

Generate a key

```ruby
key = Lockbox.generate_key
```

Create a lockbox

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key)
```

Encrypt

```ruby
ciphertext = lockbox.encrypt(File.binread("file.txt"))
```

Decrypt

```ruby
lockbox.decrypt(ciphertext)
```

## Strings

Generate a key

```ruby
key = Lockbox.generate_key
```

Create a lockbox

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key, encode: true)
```

Encrypt

```ruby
ciphertext = lockbox.encrypt("hello")
```

Decrypt

```ruby
lockbox.decrypt(ciphertext)
```

Use `decrypt_str` get the value as UTF-8

## Key Rotation

To make key rotation easy, you can pass previous versions of keys that can decrypt.

### Active Record

Update your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}]
end
```

Use `master_key` instead of `key` if passing the master key.

To rotate existing records, use:

```ruby
Lockbox.rotate(User, attributes: [:email])
```

Once all records are rotated, you can remove `previous_versions` from the model.

### Mongoid

Update your model:

```ruby
class User
  encrypts :email, previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}]
end
```

Use `master_key` instead of `key` if passing the master key.

To rotate existing records, use:

```ruby
Lockbox.rotate(User, attributes: [:email])
```

Once all records are rotated, you can remove `previous_versions` from the model.

### Active Storage

Update your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts_attached :license, previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}]
end
```

Use `master_key` instead of `key` if passing the master key.

To rotate existing files, use:

```ruby
User.find_each do |user|
  user.license.rotate_encryption!
end
```

Once all files are rotated, you can remove `previous_versions` from the model.

### CarrierWave

Update your model:

```ruby
class LicenseUploader < CarrierWave::Uploader::Base
  encrypt previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}]
end
```

Use `master_key` instead of `key` if passing the master key.

To rotate existing files, use:

```ruby
User.find_each do |user|
  user.license.rotate_encryption!
end
```

Once all files are rotated, you can remove `previous_versions` from the model.

### Strings

For strings, use:

```ruby
Lockbox.new(key: key, previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}])
```

## Auditing

It’s a good idea to track user and employee access to sensitive data. Lockbox provides a convenient way to do this with Active Record, but you can use a similar pattern to write audits to any location.

```sh
rails generate lockbox:audits
rails db:migrate
```

Then create an audit wherever a user can view data:

```ruby
class UsersController < ApplicationController
  def show
    @user = User.find(params[:id])

    LockboxAudit.create!(
      subject: @user,
      viewer: current_user,
      data: ["name", "email"],
      context: "#{controller_name}##{action_name}",
      ip: request.remote_ip
    )
  end
end
```

Query audits with:

```ruby
LockboxAudit.last(100)
```

**Note:** This approach is not intended to be used in the event of a breach or insider attack, as it’s trivial for someone with access to your infrastructure to bypass.

## Algorithms

### AES-GCM

This is the default algorithm. It’s:

- well-studied
- NIST recommended
- an IETF standard
- fast thanks to a [dedicated instruction set](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AES_instruction_set)

**For users who do a lot of encryptions:** You should rotate an individual key after 2 billion encryptions to minimize the chance of a [nonce collision](https://www.cryptologie.net/article/402/is-symmetric-security-solved/), which will expose the key. Each database field and file uploader use a different key (derived from the master key) to extend this window.

### XSalsa20

You can also use XSalsa20, which uses an extended nonce so you don’t have to worry about nonce collisions. First, [install Libsodium](https://github.com/crypto-rb/rbnacl/wiki/Installing-libsodium). For Homebrew, use:

```sh
brew install libsodium
```

And add to your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'rbnacl'
```

Then add to your model:


```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, algorithm: "xsalsa20"
end
```

Make it the default with:

```ruby
Lockbox.default_options = {algorithm: "xsalsa20"}
```

You can also pass an algorithm to `previous_versions` for key rotation.

#### XSalsa20 Deployment

##### Heroku

Heroku [comes with libsodium](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/stack-packages) preinstalled.

##### Ubuntu

For Ubuntu 18.04, use:

```sh
sudo apt-get install libsodium23
```

For Ubuntu 16.04, use:

```sh
sudo apt-get install libsodium18
```

##### Travis CI

On Bionic, add to `.travis.yml`:

```yml
addons:
  apt:
    packages:
      - libsodium23
```

On Xenial, add to `.travis.yml`:

```yml
addons:
  apt:
    packages:
      - libsodium18
```

##### CircleCI

Add a step to `.circleci/config.yml`:

```yml
- run:
    name: install Libsodium
    command: |
      sudo apt-get install -y libsodium18
```

## Hybrid Cryptography

[Hybrid cryptography](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hybrid_cryptosystem) allows servers to encrypt data without being able to decrypt it.

Follow the instructions above for installing Libsodium and including `rbnacl` in your Gemfile.

Generate a key pair with:

```ruby
Lockbox.generate_key_pair
```

Store the keys with your other secrets. Then use:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, algorithm: "hybrid", encryption_key: encryption_key, decryption_key: decryption_key
end
```

Make sure `decryption_key` is `nil` on servers that shouldn’t decrypt.

This uses X25519 for key exchange and XSalsa20 for encryption.

## Key Separation

The master key is used to generate unique keys for each column. This technique comes from [CipherSweet](https://ciphersweet.paragonie.com/internals/key-hierarchy). The table name and column name are both used in this process. If you need to rename a table with encrypted columns, or an encrypted column itself, get the key:

```ruby
Lockbox.attribute_key(table: "users", attribute: "email_ciphertext")
```

And set it directly before renaming:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, key: ENV["USER_EMAIL_ENCRYPTION_KEY"]
end
```

## Key Management

You can use a key management service to manage your keys with [KMS Encrypted](https://github.com/ankane/kms_encrypted).

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, key: :kms_key
end
```

For CarrierWave, use:

```ruby
class LicenseUploader < CarrierWave::Uploader::Base
  encrypt key: -> { model.kms_key }
end
```

**Note:** KMS Encrypted’s key rotation does not know to rotate encrypted files, so avoid calling `record.rotate_kms_key!` on models with file uploads for now.

## Data Leakage

While encryption hides the content of a message, an attacker can still get the length of the message (since the length of the ciphertext is the length of the message plus a constant number of bytes).

Let’s say you want to encrypt the status of a candidate’s background check. Valid statuses are `clear`, `consider`, and `fail`. Even with the data encrypted, it’s trivial to map the ciphertext to a status.

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key)
lockbox.encrypt("fail").bytesize      # 32
lockbox.encrypt("clear").bytesize     # 33
lockbox.encrypt("consider").bytesize  # 36
```

Add padding to conceal the exact length of messages.

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key, padding: true)
lockbox.encrypt("fail").bytesize      # 44
lockbox.encrypt("clear").bytesize     # 44
lockbox.encrypt("consider").bytesize  # 44
```

The block size for padding is 16 bytes by default. If we have a status larger than 15 bytes, it will have a different length than the others.

```ruby
box.encrypt("length15status!").bytesize   # 44
box.encrypt("length16status!!").bytesize  # 60
```

Change the block size with:

```ruby
Lockbox.new(padding: 32) # bytes
```

## Binary Columns

You can use `binary` columns for the ciphertext instead of `text` columns to save space.

```ruby
class AddEmailCiphertextToUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    add_column :users, :email_ciphertext, :binary
  end
end
```

You should disable Base64 encoding if you do this.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, encode: false
end
```

or set it globally:

```ruby
Lockbox.default_options = {encode: false}
```

## Compatibility

It’s easy to read encrypted data in another language if needed.

For AES-GCM, the format is:

- nonce (IV) - 12 bytes
- ciphertext - variable length
- authentication tag - 16 bytes

Here are [some examples](docs/Compatibility.md).

For XSalsa20, use the appropriate [Libsodium library](https://libsodium.gitbook.io/doc/bindings_for_other_languages).

## Migrating from Another Library

Lockbox makes it easy to migrate from another library without downtime. The example below uses `attr_encrypted` but the same approach should work for any library.

Let’s suppose your model looks like this:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  attr_encrypted :name, key: key
  attr_encrypted :email, key: key
end
```

Create a migration with:

```ruby
class MigrateToLockbox < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    add_column :users, :name_ciphertext, :text
    add_column :users, :email_ciphertext, :text
  end
end
```

And add `encrypts` to your model with the `migrating` option:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :name, :email, migrating: true
end
```

Then run:

```ruby
Lockbox.migrate(User)
```

Once all records are migrated, remove the `migrating` option and the previous model code (the `attr_encrypted` methods in this example).

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :name, :email
end
```

Then remove the previous gem from your Gemfile and drop its columns.

```ruby
class RemovePreviousEncryptedColumns < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    remove_column :users, :encrypted_name, :text
    remove_column :users, :encrypted_name_iv, :text
    remove_column :users, :encrypted_email, :text
    remove_column :users, :encrypted_email_iv, :text
  end
end
```

## Upgrading

### 0.3.6

0.3.6 makes content type detection more reliable for Active Storage. You can check and update the content type of existing files with:

```ruby
User.find_each do |user|
  license = user.license
  content_type = Marcel::MimeType.for(license.download, name: license.filename.to_s)
  if content_type != license.content_type
    license.update!(content_type: content_type)
  end
end
```

### 0.2.0

0.2.0 brings a number of improvements. Here are a few to be aware of:

- Added `encrypts` method for database fields
- Added support for XSalsa20
- `attached_encrypted` is deprecated in favor of `encrypts_attached`.

#### Optional

To switch to a master key, generate a key:

```ruby
Lockbox.generate_key
```

And set `ENV["LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY"]` or `Lockbox.master_key`.

Update your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts_attached :license, previous_versions: [{key: key}]
end
```

New uploads will be encrypted with the new key.

You can rotate existing records with:

```ruby
User.unscoped.find_each do |user|
  user.license.rotate_encryption!
end
```

Once that’s complete, update your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts_attached :license
end
```

## History

View the [changelog](https://github.com/ankane/lockbox/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## Contributing

Everyone is encouraged to help improve this project. Here are a few ways you can help:

- [Report bugs](https://github.com/ankane/lockbox/issues)
- Fix bugs and [submit pull requests](https://github.com/ankane/lockbox/pulls)
- Write, clarify, or fix documentation
- Suggest or add new features

To get started with development, [install Libsodium](https://github.com/crypto-rb/rbnacl/wiki/Installing-libsodium) and run:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ankane/lockbox.git
cd lockbox
bundle install
bundle exec rake test
```

Commit message:

Added migrating data note [skip ci]

README.md, after:

# Lockbox

:package: Modern encryption for Rails

- Uses state-of-the-art algorithms
- Works with database fields, files, and strings
- Makes migrating existing data and key rotation easy

Lockbox aims to make encryption as friendly and intuitive as possible. Encrypted fields and files behave just like unencrypted ones for maximum compatibility with 3rd party libraries and existing code.

Learn [the principles behind it](https://ankane.org/modern-encryption-rails), [how to secure emails with Devise](https://ankane.org/securing-user-emails-lockbox), and [how to secure sensitive data in Rails](https://ankane.org/sensitive-data-rails).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ankane/lockbox.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ankane/lockbox)

## Installation

Add this line to your application’s Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'lockbox'
```

## Key Generation

Generate a key

```ruby
Lockbox.generate_key
```

Store the key with your other secrets. This is typically Rails credentials or an environment variable ([dotenv](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv) is great for this). Be sure to use different keys in development and production. Keys don’t need to be hex-encoded, but it’s often easier to store them this way.

Set the following environment variable with your key (you can use this one in development)

```sh
LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY=0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
```

or create `config/initializers/lockbox.rb` with something like

```ruby
Lockbox.master_key = Rails.application.credentials.lockbox_master_key
```

Then follow the instructions below for the data you want to encrypt.

#### Database Fields

- [Active Record](#active-record)
- [Mongoid](#mongoid)

#### Files

- [Active Storage](#active-storage)
- [CarrierWave](#carrierwave)
- [Shrine](#shrine)
- [Local Files](#local-files)

#### Other

- [Strings](#strings)

## Active Record

Create a migration with:

```ruby
class AddEmailCiphertextToUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    add_column :users, :email_ciphertext, :text
  end
end
```

Add to your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email
end
```

You can use `email` just like any other attribute.

```ruby
User.create!(email: "hi@example.org")
```

If you need to query encrypted fields, check out [Blind Index](https://github.com/ankane/blind_index).

#### Types

Fields are strings by default. Specify the type of a field with:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :born_on, type: :date
  encrypts :signed_at, type: :datetime
  encrypts :opens_at, type: :time
  encrypts :active, type: :boolean
  encrypts :salary, type: :integer
  encrypts :latitude, type: :float
  encrypts :video, type: :binary
  encrypts :properties, type: :json
  encrypts :settings, type: :hash
  encrypts :messages, type: :array
end
```

**Note:** Use a `text` column for the ciphertext in migrations, regardless of the type

Lockbox automatically works with serialized fields for maximum compatibility with existing code and libraries.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  serialize :properties, JSON
  store :settings, accessors: [:color, :homepage]
  attribute :configuration, CustomType.new

  encrypts :properties, :settings, :configuration
end
```

For [StoreModel](https://github.com/DmitryTsepelev/store_model), use:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :configuration, type: Configuration.to_type

  after_initialize do
    self.configuration ||= {}
  end
end
```

#### Validations

Validations work as expected with the exception of uniqueness. Uniqueness validations require a [blind index](https://github.com/ankane/blind_index).

#### Fixtures

You can use encrypted attributes in fixtures with:

```yml
test_user:
  email_ciphertext: <%= User.generate_email_ciphertext("secret").inspect %>
```

Be sure to include the `inspect` at the end or it won’t be encoded properly in YAML.

#### Migrating Existing Data

Lockbox makes it easy to encrypt an existing column. Add a new column for the ciphertext, then add to your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, migrating: true
end
```

Backfill the data in the Rails console:

```ruby
Lockbox.migrate(User)
```

Then update the model to the desired state:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email

  # remove this line after dropping email column
  self.ignored_columns = ["email"]
end
```

Finally, drop the unencrypted column.

If adding blind indexes, mark them as `migrating` during this process as well.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  blind_index :email, migrating: true
end
```

## Mongoid

Add to your model:

```ruby
class User
  field :email_ciphertext, type: String

  encrypts :email
end
```

You can use `email` just like any other attribute.

```ruby
User.create!(email: "hi@example.org")
```

If you need to query encrypted fields, check out [Blind Index](https://github.com/ankane/blind_index).

You can [migrate existing data](#migrate-existing-data) similarly to Active Record.

## Active Storage

Add to your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  has_one_attached :license
  encrypts_attached :license
end
```

Works with multiple attachments as well.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  has_many_attached :documents
  encrypts_attached :documents
end
```

There are a few limitations to be aware of:

- Metadata like image width and height are not extracted when encrypted
- Direct uploads cannot be encrypted

To serve encrypted files, use a controller action.

```ruby
def license
  user = User.find(params[:id])
  send_data user.license.download, type: user.license.content_type
end
```

## CarrierWave

Add to your uploader:

```ruby
class LicenseUploader < CarrierWave::Uploader::Base
  encrypt
end
```

Encryption is applied to all versions after processing.

You can mount the uploader [as normal](https://github.com/carrierwaveuploader/carrierwave#activerecord). With Active Record, this involves creating a migration:

```ruby
class AddLicenseToUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    add_column :users, :license, :string
  end
end
```

And updating the model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  mount_uploader :license, LicenseUploader
end
```

To serve encrypted files, use a controller action.

```ruby
def license
  user = User.find(params[:id])
  send_data user.license.read, type: user.license.content_type
end
```

## Shrine

Generate a key

```ruby
key = Lockbox.generate_key
```

Create a lockbox

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key)
```

Encrypt files before passing them to Shrine

```ruby
LicenseUploader.upload(lockbox.encrypt_io(file), :store)
```

And decrypt them after reading

```ruby
lockbox.decrypt(uploaded_file.read)
```

For models, encrypt with:

```ruby
license = params.require(:user).fetch(:license)
user.license = lockbox.encrypt_io(license)
```

To serve encrypted files, use a controller action.

```ruby
def license
  user = User.find(params[:id])
  send_data lockbox.decrypt(user.license.read), type: user.license.mime_type
end
```

## Local Files

Generate a key

```ruby
key = Lockbox.generate_key
```

Create a lockbox

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key)
```

Encrypt

```ruby
ciphertext = lockbox.encrypt(File.binread("file.txt"))
```

Decrypt

```ruby
lockbox.decrypt(ciphertext)
```

## Strings

Generate a key

```ruby
key = Lockbox.generate_key
```

Create a lockbox

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key, encode: true)
```

Encrypt

```ruby
ciphertext = lockbox.encrypt("hello")
```

Decrypt

```ruby
lockbox.decrypt(ciphertext)
```

Use `decrypt_str` get the value as UTF-8

## Key Rotation

To make key rotation easy, you can pass previous versions of keys that can decrypt.

### Active Record

Update your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}]
end
```

Use `master_key` instead of `key` if passing the master key.

To rotate existing records, use:

```ruby
Lockbox.rotate(User, attributes: [:email])
```

Once all records are rotated, you can remove `previous_versions` from the model.

### Mongoid

Update your model:

```ruby
class User
  encrypts :email, previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}]
end
```

Use `master_key` instead of `key` if passing the master key.

To rotate existing records, use:

```ruby
Lockbox.rotate(User, attributes: [:email])
```

Once all records are rotated, you can remove `previous_versions` from the model.

### Active Storage

Update your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts_attached :license, previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}]
end
```

Use `master_key` instead of `key` if passing the master key.

To rotate existing files, use:

```ruby
User.find_each do |user|
  user.license.rotate_encryption!
end
```

Once all files are rotated, you can remove `previous_versions` from the model.

### CarrierWave

Update your model:

```ruby
class LicenseUploader < CarrierWave::Uploader::Base
  encrypt previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}]
end
```

Use `master_key` instead of `key` if passing the master key.

To rotate existing files, use:

```ruby
User.find_each do |user|
  user.license.rotate_encryption!
end
```

Once all files are rotated, you can remove `previous_versions` from the model.

### Strings

For strings, use:

```ruby
Lockbox.new(key: key, previous_versions: [{key: previous_key}])
```

## Auditing

It’s a good idea to track user and employee access to sensitive data. Lockbox provides a convenient way to do this with Active Record, but you can use a similar pattern to write audits to any location.

```sh
rails generate lockbox:audits
rails db:migrate
```

Then create an audit wherever a user can view data:

```ruby
class UsersController < ApplicationController
  def show
    @user = User.find(params[:id])

    LockboxAudit.create!(
      subject: @user,
      viewer: current_user,
      data: ["name", "email"],
      context: "#{controller_name}##{action_name}",
      ip: request.remote_ip
    )
  end
end
```

Query audits with:

```ruby
LockboxAudit.last(100)
```

**Note:** This approach is not intended to be used in the event of a breach or insider attack, as it’s trivial for someone with access to your infrastructure to bypass.

## Algorithms

### AES-GCM

This is the default algorithm. It’s:

- well-studied
- NIST recommended
- an IETF standard
- fast thanks to a [dedicated instruction set](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AES_instruction_set)

**For users who do a lot of encryptions:** You should rotate an individual key after 2 billion encryptions to minimize the chance of a [nonce collision](https://www.cryptologie.net/article/402/is-symmetric-security-solved/), which will expose the key. Each database field and file uploader use a different key (derived from the master key) to extend this window.

### XSalsa20

You can also use XSalsa20, which uses an extended nonce so you don’t have to worry about nonce collisions. First, [install Libsodium](https://github.com/crypto-rb/rbnacl/wiki/Installing-libsodium). For Homebrew, use:

```sh
brew install libsodium
```

And add to your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'rbnacl'
```

Then add to your model:


```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, algorithm: "xsalsa20"
end
```

Make it the default with:

```ruby
Lockbox.default_options = {algorithm: "xsalsa20"}
```

You can also pass an algorithm to `previous_versions` for key rotation.

#### XSalsa20 Deployment

##### Heroku

Heroku [comes with libsodium](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/stack-packages) preinstalled.

##### Ubuntu

For Ubuntu 18.04, use:

```sh
sudo apt-get install libsodium23
```

For Ubuntu 16.04, use:

```sh
sudo apt-get install libsodium18
```

##### Travis CI

On Bionic, add to `.travis.yml`:

```yml
addons:
  apt:
    packages:
      - libsodium23
```

On Xenial, add to `.travis.yml`:

```yml
addons:
  apt:
    packages:
      - libsodium18
```

##### CircleCI

Add a step to `.circleci/config.yml`:

```yml
- run:
    name: install Libsodium
    command: |
      sudo apt-get install -y libsodium18
```

## Hybrid Cryptography

[Hybrid cryptography](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hybrid_cryptosystem) allows servers to encrypt data without being able to decrypt it.

Follow the instructions above for installing Libsodium and including `rbnacl` in your Gemfile.

Generate a key pair with:

```ruby
Lockbox.generate_key_pair
```

Store the keys with your other secrets. Then use:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, algorithm: "hybrid", encryption_key: encryption_key, decryption_key: decryption_key
end
```

Make sure `decryption_key` is `nil` on servers that shouldn’t decrypt.

This uses X25519 for key exchange and XSalsa20 for encryption.

## Key Separation

The master key is used to generate unique keys for each column. This technique comes from [CipherSweet](https://ciphersweet.paragonie.com/internals/key-hierarchy). The table name and column name are both used in this process. If you need to rename a table with encrypted columns, or an encrypted column itself, get the key:

```ruby
Lockbox.attribute_key(table: "users", attribute: "email_ciphertext")
```

And set it directly before renaming:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, key: ENV["USER_EMAIL_ENCRYPTION_KEY"]
end
```

## Key Management

You can use a key management service to manage your keys with [KMS Encrypted](https://github.com/ankane/kms_encrypted).

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, key: :kms_key
end
```

For CarrierWave, use:

```ruby
class LicenseUploader < CarrierWave::Uploader::Base
  encrypt key: -> { model.kms_key }
end
```

**Note:** KMS Encrypted’s key rotation does not know to rotate encrypted files, so avoid calling `record.rotate_kms_key!` on models with file uploads for now.

## Data Leakage

While encryption hides the content of a message, an attacker can still get the length of the message (since the length of the ciphertext is the length of the message plus a constant number of bytes).

Let’s say you want to encrypt the status of a candidate’s background check. Valid statuses are `clear`, `consider`, and `fail`. Even with the data encrypted, it’s trivial to map the ciphertext to a status.

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key)
lockbox.encrypt("fail").bytesize      # 32
lockbox.encrypt("clear").bytesize     # 33
lockbox.encrypt("consider").bytesize  # 36
```

Add padding to conceal the exact length of messages.

```ruby
lockbox = Lockbox.new(key: key, padding: true)
lockbox.encrypt("fail").bytesize      # 44
lockbox.encrypt("clear").bytesize     # 44
lockbox.encrypt("consider").bytesize  # 44
```

The block size for padding is 16 bytes by default. If we have a status larger than 15 bytes, it will have a different length than the others.

```ruby
box.encrypt("length15status!").bytesize   # 44
box.encrypt("length16status!!").bytesize  # 60
```

Change the block size with:

```ruby
Lockbox.new(padding: 32) # bytes
```

## Binary Columns

You can use `binary` columns for the ciphertext instead of `text` columns to save space.

```ruby
class AddEmailCiphertextToUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    add_column :users, :email_ciphertext, :binary
  end
end
```

You should disable Base64 encoding if you do this.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :email, encode: false
end
```

or set it globally:

```ruby
Lockbox.default_options = {encode: false}
```

## Compatibility

It’s easy to read encrypted data in another language if needed.

For AES-GCM, the format is:

- nonce (IV) - 12 bytes
- ciphertext - variable length
- authentication tag - 16 bytes

Here are [some examples](docs/Compatibility.md).

For XSalsa20, use the appropriate [Libsodium library](https://libsodium.gitbook.io/doc/bindings_for_other_languages).

## Migrating from Another Library

Lockbox makes it easy to migrate from another library without downtime. The example below uses `attr_encrypted` but the same approach should work for any library.

Let’s suppose your model looks like this:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  attr_encrypted :name, key: key
  attr_encrypted :email, key: key
end
```

Create a migration with:

```ruby
class MigrateToLockbox < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    add_column :users, :name_ciphertext, :text
    add_column :users, :email_ciphertext, :text
  end
end
```

And add `encrypts` to your model with the `migrating` option:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :name, :email, migrating: true
end
```

Then run:

```ruby
Lockbox.migrate(User)
```

Once all records are migrated, remove the `migrating` option and the previous model code (the `attr_encrypted` methods in this example).

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts :name, :email
end
```

Then remove the previous gem from your Gemfile and drop its columns.

```ruby
class RemovePreviousEncryptedColumns < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    remove_column :users, :encrypted_name, :text
    remove_column :users, :encrypted_name_iv, :text
    remove_column :users, :encrypted_email, :text
    remove_column :users, :encrypted_email_iv, :text
  end
end
```

## Upgrading

### 0.3.6

0.3.6 makes content type detection more reliable for Active Storage. You can check and update the content type of existing files with:

```ruby
User.find_each do |user|
  license = user.license
  content_type = Marcel::MimeType.for(license.download, name: license.filename.to_s)
  if content_type != license.content_type
    license.update!(content_type: content_type)
  end
end
```

### 0.2.0

0.2.0 brings a number of improvements. Here are a few to be aware of:

- Added `encrypts` method for database fields
- Added support for XSalsa20
- `attached_encrypted` is deprecated in favor of `encrypts_attached`.

#### Optional

To switch to a master key, generate a key:

```ruby
Lockbox.generate_key
```

And set `ENV["LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY"]` or `Lockbox.master_key`.

Update your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts_attached :license, previous_versions: [{key: key}]
end
```

New uploads will be encrypted with the new key.

You can rotate existing records with:

```ruby
User.unscoped.find_each do |user|
  user.license.rotate_encryption!
end
```

Once that’s complete, update your model:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  encrypts_attached :license
end
```

## History

View the [changelog](https://github.com/ankane/lockbox/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## Contributing

Everyone is encouraged to help improve this project. Here are a few ways you can help:

- [Report bugs](https://github.com/ankane/lockbox/issues)
- Fix bugs and [submit pull requests](https://github.com/ankane/lockbox/pulls)
- Write, clarify, or fix documentation
- Suggest or add new features

To get started with development, [install Libsodium](https://github.com/crypto-rb/rbnacl/wiki/Installing-libsodium) and run:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ankane/lockbox.git
cd lockbox
bundle install
bundle exec rake test
```
